Add cluster scoped pros and cons (#773)
kyma-project/api-gateway: docs/contributor/04-50-cluster-vs-namespaced-scoped.md

# Pros and cons of cluster scoped and namespaced scoped module custom resource

> 

Reviewer: I'd add an explanation about the "UX" items and make it clear why we are having this. Also making clear that some of those are clear opinions from our team and no hard facts. Also making it obvious that UX is very important.

```suggestion
In the following overview, we have labelled some items with `[UX]' as they evaluate how the user sees and interacts with the resources. Some of these items are opinions rather than facts as we have no data on them and they are mainly based on our assumptions of how a user should interact with our components and APIs. Also, some of these points are based on our experience with the current implementation of the user interface.
Furthermore, we believe that it is important not only to look at this from a technical perspective, but also to focus on the user experience.
```

<table style="table-layout: fixed; width: 100%">
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td colspan="2" align="center">Cluster scoped Custom Resource</td>
            <td colspan="2" align="center">Namespaced scoped Custom Resource</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td style="width: 25%;" align="center">Pros</td>
            <td style="width: 25%;" align="center">Cons</td>
            <td style="width: 25%;" align="center">Pros</td>
            <td style="width: 25%;" align="center">Cons</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td>[UX] Resource is more visible to customer, and the module is clearly visible as installed.<br></br> This might also guarantee better visibility that this resource manages resources across the cluster, not only in a single namespace.</td>

Reviewer: I'd remove my comment, because this is very opinionated. Also since this argument is heavily bound to how the UI is implemented I'd not list it as the first one. I'd have a very strong argument as the first argument in the list.
```suggestion
            <td>[UX] The module and the resource is clearly visible as installed to customer in the current UI implementation. This better visibility might also </td>
```

>             <td>Different approach than other Kyma modules</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>[UX] Different approach than other Kyma modules</td>
```

>             <td>Resource closer to manager</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>[UX] Reconciled resource in same namespace as manager</td>
```

>             <td>[UX] Module is less visible in Dashboard, as user needs to access Kyma system, before seeing the resource</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>[UX] Module is less visible in Dashboard, as user needs to access kyma-system namespace, before seeing the resource</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Ability to use cross namespace owner references:<br></br> - Allows getting all managed resources by owner reference<br></br>- Allows easy to do force deletion of the module, even without a controller</td>

>             <td>[UX] Module ties to Kyma might not be as visible</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>[UX] Module CR ties to Kyma is not visible by namespace, but by CR Kind only.</td>
```

>             <td>[UX] Resource is a clear part of Kyma</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>[UX] Resource is a clear part of Kyma, since it's in the "kyma-system" namespace.</td>
```

            <td>Creation and modifying of resources in `kyma-system` is required, even in LM scenario</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td>[UX] User does not need to create or edit resource in `kyma-system`, which should only be managed by Kyma team</td>

Reviewer: Backticks were not formatted in the table.
```suggestion
            <td>[UX] User does not need to create or edit resource in "kyma-system", which should only be managed by Kyma team</td>
```

            <td>Requires additional configuration to have it displayed in Busola under `kyma-system`, if we consider that to be the desired behaviour</td>
            <td></td>
            <td>Reconciliation for resources in different Namespaces is anyway needed, as they need to be put in `Warning` state</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>[UX] Configuring RBAC for creation/visibility of the module is easier (in a cluster that has users with different level of access, e.g. administrator, developer, user)<br></br>This allows a more fine grained approach to configuring ClusterRoles without the need to expose access to `kyma-system`</td>
            <td></td>
            <td></td>
            <td>Owner references don't bring any value, as they would only allow access to `kyma-system` resources</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td>Monitoring number of resources is easier, and doesn't need to have access to `kyma-system`</td>

Reviewer: What resources are we referring to? I think we should add some context.

Author: clarify about it being module CR

            <td></td>
            <td></td>
            <td>Control over Cluster scoped resources by a Namespaced scope resource feels counter-intuitive</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>

>             <td>Better solution for enforcing single module installation policy on cluster</td>

Reviewer: What reasoning did we mention in the meeting? I think we need to have a good reasoning for this, otherwise we should remove it.

Author: More criteria needed to check if the resources is `kyma-system` additionally 
No need to have cluster wide access to all namespaces
